Jaundice in cats: what is it and what is the danger of the disease
Jaundice is a sudden yellowing of the eyeballs, skin and tissues, gums and tongue in a cat. Unlike other infectious and non-communicable diseases, jaundice in cats is quite rare. As a rule, it is a sign of a large number of pathologies. So, what is the danger of such jaundice and how does it manifest itself?

Predisposing factors to the disease
Causes jaundice high bilirubin content in the blood. This bile pigment is formed in the cat's body as a result of the processing of hemoglobin from red blood cells. Hemoglobin is the most important component of blood, which oxygenates all organs and cells. If hemoglobin is processed too quickly, then the produced bilirubin does not have time to be disposed of through the liver and gradually accumulates in the body, causing intoxication.

The cat has jaundice
Jaundice often occurs against the background of liver diseases.

Jaundice can often occur against the background of concomitant liver diseases (cancer, cirrhosis, hepatitis), tumors that squeeze the bile ducts or due to taking certain medications. It can be provoked by a rupture of the gallbladder, blood diseases, bacterial infections, obesity, the presence of worms in the body, poor-quality nutrition. Jaundice can be caused by various bacterial and viral infections, blood transfusion, hepatic lipidosis, impaired bilirubin production.

Types of jaundice in cats
There are several varieties of this disease, because there are many causes of jaundice.

The main types of jaundice in cats:

Hemolytic or prehepatic jaundice is caused by the destruction of red blood cells in the blood, which, in turn, leads to increased bilirubin formation outside the liver. Some systemic diseases cause hemolytic jaundice, for example, lupus erythematosus, viral infectious diseases (dirofilariasis, viral leukemia) or hematomas.
Mechanical (posthepathic) – is a consequence of blockage of the vessels and ducts of the liver or gallbladder by any foreign body (tumor, parasites). Mechanical jaundice can be triggered by pancreatitis, gallstones, cholangitis and damage to the gallbladder. This leads to the fact that bile is not excreted from the body through the intestines, but enters directly into the blood.
Parenchymal or hepatic jaundice occurs due to impaired liver function. Any liver diseases, such as cirrhosis, viral hepatitis, lymphoma, systemic hypothyroidism and leptospirosis lead to the fact that bilirubin enters the blood in large quantities, but is not excreted from the body. The cause is also toxic liver damage with medications and sepsis.